## Syllabus

### **PAVS 4500 (004): How will Artificial Intelligence change Humanity?**
University of Virginia, Fall 2018

**Meetings:** Mondays, 3:30-6:00PM in Rice 536.

**Coordinator:** [David Evans](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans)
  (evans@virginia.edu). My
  [office](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans/office) is Rice 507.

**Office Hours:** I will have office hours on Thursdays,
  9:30-10:30am. To schedule another time, please use
  [https://davidevans.youcanbook.me/](https://davidevans.youcanbook.me/). When
  my door is open, you are welcome to stop by anytime.

### Description

Artificial intelligence has made remarkable advances in the past
decade, leading to machines that can out-perform humans on many of the
tasks that once defined what it means to be human: understanding
language, recognizing images, playing games, and even creating
art. According to many prognosticators, within just a few decades we
may reach a world where the traditional purposes of human existence,
and the work the preponderance of humans do today, will no longer
exist. This seminar will explore the validity of such predictions, and
consider what the future of humanity is in a world that may not need
us. We will explore these issues from a variety of perspectives,
spanning economics, politics, philosophy, computer science, and
anthropology. We will include both historical and fictional readings
to understand how humanity has adapted to past dramatic shifts,
technical readings to understand the present and future of artificial
intelligence, philosophical and political readings to understand how
society might adapt to increasingly intelligence machines, and various
other media including computer simulations, music, and movies.

## Assignments

Students in the seminar will be expected to complete a variety of
different types of assignments during the semester, including:

**Reactions to Readings:** Short weekly essays reacting to readings
and questions posted about the readings.  These essays will be posted
on the class website, and available to all students in the class for
further discussion and comments.

**Papers:** Two major papers one due mid-way through the semester, and
the other due near the end. For both of the papers, students would
submit a preliminary draft to the instructor for feedback, and would
be expected to revise the final paper in response to comments and
discussion. For the first paper, students will focus on one aspect of
how artificial intelligence has already impacted society, describing
the impact of technological advances on a social, political, economic,
or psychological aspect of human existence. For the second paper,
students will speculate on the future, grounding their arguments in
technical understanding of the expected capabilities of artificial
intelligence, and considering how humanity may adapt to a future with
intelligent machines. Students are encouraged to develop creative
ideas for alternative topics for the papers, as well as alternate
communications tools (such as a scripted video or podcast instead of a
paper), and to discuss and gain approval for proposed alternatives
with the course instructor.

See [/schedule](the course schedule) for details on the readings and assignments.

## Evaluation

